Block 1: Create the environment

Python

env = gym.make("FetchPickAndPlace-v3", render_mode="human")
This line is the entry point to the Gymnasium library. gym.make() loads and initializes the specified environment. We pass "human" to render_mode so a window will pop up showing the robot simulation.

Block 2: Reset the environment

Python

observation, info = env.reset()
Before starting an episode, you must always reset() the environment. This places the robot, block, and target in their initial positions. It returns the very first observation, which is a dictionary of sensor readings, and an info dictionary that may contain extra diagnostic data.

Block 3: Run the simulation loop

Python

for step in range(500):
This for loop runs our simulation for 500 time steps. In each step, the robot will take one action.

Block 4: Get a random action

Python

action = env.action_space.sample()
env.action_space is an object that describes the valid actions you can take. The .sample() method is a convenient way to get a random action that conforms to the required format. For Fetch, this will be an array of 4 random floating-point numbers.

Block 5: Step the environment

Python

observation, reward, terminated, truncated, info = env.step(action)
This is the most important function. env.step(action) sends the action to the robot, runs the physics simulation for one time step, and returns five crucial pieces of information:

observation: The new state of the world after the action was taken.
reward: The reward received for the last action. In this environment, it will be -1 unless the task is solved.
terminated: A boolean (True/False) that is True if the agent has reached a terminal state (like completing the goal).
truncated: A boolean that is True if the episode was ended for another reason (like running out of time).
info: A dictionary with auxiliary data.
Block 6: Close the environment

Python

env.close()
This closes the rendering window and performs other necessary cleanup.

Analysis
What to Consider: When you run the code, you will see the Fetch robot's arm moving around erratically. It is extremely unlikely to pick up the block and place it at the red target sphere. This is expected. The key takeaway is that the problem is not trivial. The agent needs to learn a precise sequence of actions from a high-dimensional observation space to succeed. The sparse reward makes this even harder, as there's no "hot/cold" signal to guide the agent. This is known as the exploration problem.

Results and Meaning: The "result" here is observing the failure of a random policy.

In the context of Reinforcement Learning: This simulation demonstrates the control problem we need to solve. Our goal is to replace the env.action_space.sample() line with a sophisticated policy (a neural network, for example) that maps an observation to a good action. The learning algorithm's job is to continuously update this policy based on the reward signal, so that over time, the agent's actions become more purposeful and eventually solve the task.
In the context of Robotics: This highlights a core challenge in robotics. Unlike games, the real world doesn't provide easy rewards. Actions are continuous and require fine precision. The physics-based simulation allows us to train and fail millions of times in a safe, fast, and low-cost virtual environment before deploying the learned policy to a physical robot.
We have now successfully set up the environment and understood the basic interaction loop. In the next lessons, we will replace the random agent with an intelligent one and begin the actual training process.